# 2016.02.11
This is the 12th diary entry. The tough part starts. Thinking about how AI can
actually work. Thinking in pictures.

From now on creative work needs to be done. Question is how AI can actually
work. How can you implement something that thinks, that learns, that
understands the meaning of things? The problem is this. Well, maybe it is about
two bigger problems. At first, imagine you are a machine and the following
circles are bytes you want to read.

![mystery bytes](image/mystery_bytes.png)

What you see are in fact bytes, but without meaning. You just see bytes without
understanding what they actually represent. What you need to achieve to go
further with interpreting bytes, is realizing the following.

![identified bytes](image/identified_bytes.png)

This is the first big problem we need to solve. Once this is accomplished, I
guess the rest is pure math. You know the connection between the given bytes by
their given order.

![connected bytes](image/connected_bytes.png)

Finally by assoziating you see meaningful bytes. Meaningful to you.

![meaningful bytes](image/meaningful_bytes.png)

The second big problem I currently see is the barrier between information and
behaviour. We can already do a lot with data. We can manipulate it, calculate
similarities between data sets, cluster information, store it, use it, serve it
to humans. So great all this might be, all programs we developed so far are
static and strict. Things only work as we implemented them. Software mimiced
behaviour is neither generic, nor dynamic, nor evolves or improves properly to
certain extends. So this is the other barrier we need to overcome. The hard barrier
between information and behaviour.

![info beha separated](image/info_beha_separated.png)

What we need to make AI actually work is transforming the relationship between
information and behaviour to this.

![info beha connected](image/info_beha_connected.png)

Based on information behaviour needs to take place. Based on behaviour
information needs to be generated. How to do that? I really don't know at this
point. Lets find out. Maybe it is like physics. AFAIK there are predefined
atoms that when binding together form something. Maybe it is like chemics.
There are predefined elements when reacting together do something. So maybe
there "only" need to be the right predefined rules to actually make AI work.
Even if the term "predefined" suggests something static, as seen in physics and
chemics, reactions can lead to none-static results. "None-static" as it looks
from a human's point of view, because there are more possible combinations of
things that can lead to something than the human mind can capture. Maybe it is
just a question of the right decision tree to be implemented, to actually mimic
a generic behaviour model.

xh3b4sd
