# 2016.08.25
This is the 32th diary entry. All good so far.

This time it took me only around two weeks. Yay. So what happened? I played
around with Github milestones. Again. My last try turned out not to be that
useful. Now it seems to work. There is more structure in what I am doing and
especially in which order, because there are small tasks I can go for. I scan
the project from time to time. Especially the code. Then I see this and that
detail. Something needs to be changed here.  Something should be modified
there. Then I write up a list of TODOs and create issues for them. These issues
have been put into milestones this time. A milestone is named like a
[semver](http://semver.org) version number, even if it does not make that much
sense to apply semver versioning. That way I have a reasonable milestone, which
could lead to a release at some point. Anyway, I had like 10 issues resolved
within the first milestone. Now there comes the second one.

One thing that happened was the addition of [gRPC](http://www.grpc.io). With
this along the way came
[protocol-buffers](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers). There is
now a `StreamText` API endpoint which is able to stream text bidirectionally.
The [data flow
documentation](https://github.com/the-anna-project/annad/blob/4c93412c66d0239699ad78031d69d434ca728538/doc/concept/data_flow.md)
describes how this looks like. I also added the `--echo` flag to
[annactl](https://github.com/the-anna-project/annad/blob/4c93412c66d0239699ad78031d69d434ca728538/doc/concept/annactl.md).

The generated CLGs we have so far within the "new" `clg` package have tests and
a decent coverage now. The CLG interface contains a
[context](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/net/context) which can be used to
share relevant information about the current request.

Vendoring was a topic I also checked already some time ago. The tooling and the
[GOPATH
insanity](https://github.com/the-anna-project/annad/blob/4c93412c66d0239699ad78031d69d434ca728538/doc/development/setup.md#setup)
are still shite, but you find ways to deal with that over time. Here I found [a
simple shell
script](https://github.com/the-anna-project/annad/blob/4c93412c66d0239699ad78031d69d434ca728538/bin/goget)
which satisfied my requirements.

I made a cool refactoring of the command line tools `anna` and `annactl`.
Nothing critical, but I found a way to cleanup the code and made it more
reasonable than before. My initial problem was bringing the object
specification I define in the [spec
package](https://godoc.org/github.com/the-anna-project/annad/spec) together with the
[cobra command line tool framework](https://github.com/spf13/cobra). Here it
took some time to find a nice structure in which the command line tool object
could be created and initialized to finally execute actual commands using flags
being parsed at the beginning. Technical details. All good now.

Overall I am quite happy with the project structure. The connection space model
still makes sense, which is very good. You know, one day you think you have a
nice idea, which you find totally retarded the other day. I am more or less
constantly thinking about the model and its implications, what goal we have,
and it makes perfect sense in my head. I am looking forward to realizing
persistent neural activity, because at this point it gets interesting. The idea
makes sense. What we still need is the prove.

So next will still be working on realizing the connection space model.
Implementing `spec.Network.Forward` is the most upcoming task. Lets see how
this will turn put.

xh3b4sd
