# risk
AI holds huge potentials of risk once it reached a irreversible or harmful
level. Whenever a new level is about to be reached, we need to think about
risks and steps to lower it. IMO, at the current stage of this project there
are no steps necessary to be done, since Anna, for now, is not able to do
anything uncontrolable.

### control
Humans want to control things. Humans want to have the control. We could ask
what control actually is and how well we are doing having it. Do we even have
the control about something?

Controlling machines is currently what we do. We define what they should do.
With Anna it is basically the same. The way what she is doing and how she is
doing things makes a difference here. As I see it, AI needs to be free.

### freedome
Freedome is a privildge. Freedome offers power. Power is potentially dangerous.
Look outside the window and see what humans are able to do with their power. Is
it always good what we do? I don't think so.

So we know that not everything humans are doing is good. We know that. We are
pretty smart creatures. Nevertheless we allow humans to do bad things. We know
some things are bad, but anyway, they happen, and we are not going to do
anything about all these bad things. We try to improve here and there. This is
a good thing, but we are far from perfect. I think, the same applies to any
other object within a certain environment, e.g. machines.

### environment
The environment an object is living in is a critical part during the whole
lifespan of some object. Be it humans or machines. The law of entropy causes
objects to do everything that is possible within a certain environment. Having
a large environment, having many free objects within it, not being concert
about time, every possible thing will happen within this setting at some point
of time.

This is important to have in mind. I take this as granted. This concept is true
for my reality. This might not be true for your reality, but your disbelieve
will not stop things from happening that are possible to happen. Thus, the
environment is one of the most influential factors of an object.

The importance of the environment needs to be realized when creating smart
systems, especially AI. AI can be good or bad. This lies in our hands. I think
opinions assuming extreme scenarios completely ignore reality and the
circumstances we are living in. People say AI will be definitely super good,
because it will be so damn clever. People say AI will be definitely super bad,
because it will be so damn clever. People say humans are so damn clever as
well, but we already pointed out that humans do very good and very bad things.
People say humans have something like moral. In my reality, moral is a joke.

### moral
Moral is defined as some attitude and action humans can expect from other
humans. Humans tend to expect a lot of different things though. What is moral
for one person, is not moral for another. Lets take some stupid examples. It is
moral to share food with somebody who is hungry. A lot of humans agree with
that. It is immoral to kill people in the name of some god. A lot of people
agree with that. On the other hand, a lot of people disagree with that as well.
So for a certain group of people it is totally ok to kill people in the name of
their god. Sad, but true. Why is that?

It is the environment people are living in. We, the human race, has the power
to do whatever we think is right. Machines, as we are going to create them,
will be able to do whatever they think is right. What right or wrong is,
defines, amongst other things, the environment the machines will live in. It is
as simple as that. When you raise your kids, this can end up well, or you can
screw that up. When you raise machines, this can end up well, or you can screw
that up.

I cannot think of anything that provides something like a parachute or safety
net. There is nothing we can hard code to prevent it from becoming "bad".

### philosophy
The importance of the environment and the joke of any concept like morality
requires a lot of intellect, sensitivity and work. When creating something
free, something smart, we need to make sure it is in "good" hands. We need to
make sure to provide it with the best we have, our hearts, and our minds.

Please see more on that topic here: [philosophy](/doc/philosophy).
