# imagination
**Note that the following is not fully thought through and is currently only
there to help to form more concrete ideas around solutions.**

What is key for Anna to be intelligent is to be able to imagine things. She
needs to have an idea about what is going on. About the differences between
objects interacting within the sorounding environment.

One idea how such a imagination system could be implemented would be this. When
thinking about how imagination works, this has a lot to do with visualization.
Certain brain movies are created and more or less recognized. In any way such
pictures, ideas and reflections influence the human life a lot. All light and
dark sides of ourselves evolve out of this. So necessary woud be some content
generation that is then more or less recognized by Anna. The content Anna
produces here would be partially influenced by the current environment and
partially random. This content can be in form of pictures, sound or text.
Depending on how much of certain brain movies would be recognized, Anna's
behaviour could be influenced. That way a simulation of currently experienced
situatiuons would go a step further. The surrounding environment influences
created thoughts. Created thoughts are recognized. Recognized thoughts
influence behaviour. Behaviour influences the surrounding environment.

```
A concept is a common feature or characteristic. Kant investigated the way that
empirical a posteriori concepts are created. The logical acts of the
understanding by which concepts are generated as to their form are:

- comparison, i.e., the likening of mental images to one another in relation to
  the unity of consciousness;
- reflection, i.e., the going back over different mental images, how they can
  be comprehended in one consciousness; and finally
- abstraction or the segregation of everything else by which the mental images
  differ ...

In order to make our mental images into concepts, one must thus be able to
compare, reflect, and abstract, for these three logical operations of the
understanding are essential and general conditions of generating any concept
whatever. For example, I see a fir, a willow, and a linden. In firstly
comparing these objects, I notice that they are different from one another in
respect of trunk, branches, leaves, and the like; further, however, I reflect
only on what they have in common, the trunk, the branches, the leaves
themselves, and abstract from their size, shape, and so forth; thus I gain a
concept of a tree.

— Logic, §6
```

See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concept.
